Video thumbnails (#5593)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: dataminer/Functions/Video_Thumbnails/Configuring_Video_Thumbnails/Adding_parameters_to_the_video_URL.md

      >
      > See also: [Allowed paths in case of connection via DataMiner proxy](xref:Allowed_paths_connection_DataMiner_proxy).

    - Add a `refresh=` parameter to the video URL to specify the refresh interval (in milliseconds). See [Optional parameters](#optional-parameters).

    - By default, a thumbnail of type *Generic Images* always uses the DMA as a proxy. However, you can add an extra URL parameter, "proxy", to override this behavior. For example: `http://<DMA>/VideoThumbnails/video.htm?type=Generic%20Images&source=<IMG URL>&proxy=false`

    - Both HTTP and HTTPS are supported.

  - VLC: `type=Generic%20VLC`

    - To display video thumbnails with the VLC plugin in the Cube desktop app, use the 64-bit version of VLC.

- `source=`: The URL of the video/image.

## Optional parameters

- `referer=` (Generic VLC): The VLC component of video thumbnails sends a referer HTTP header when requesting the source URL. The referer URL is by default the URL of the DMA, but you can change it by specifying the parameter "referer=" in the URL of the video thumbnail.

>   Example: `#http://<DMA>/VideoThumbnails/video.htm?type=VLC&source=http%3A%2F%2Fclips.vorwaerts-gmbh.de%2Fbig_buck_bunny.mp4&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fsome%2Freferer%2F.`

Reviewer: It should be \<DMAIP\> in all these examples, instead of \<DMA\> (this placeholder doesn't exist).

The naming is confusing, because \<DMAIP\> can resolve into a hostname. See https://docs.dataminer.services/dataminer/Operator_guide/Visio/reference/Placeholders_for_variables_in_shape_data_values.html#dmaip

  `#https://<DMA>/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=HTML5&source=https://videoserver/video.mp4&loop=true`

- `fitMode=` (Images): Available from DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU18]/10.5.0 [CU6]/10.5.9 onwards<!--RN 43388-->. Specify how the image in a video thumbnail should be displayed.

  The possible values are:

  - `fill`: The image will completely cover the container. It may crop parts of the image, but it ensures that there is no empty space (*default*).

  - `fit`: The image will be fully visible inside the container while maintaining aspect ratio. There may be empty space if aspect ratios differ.

  - `stretch`: The image will stretch to exactly fill the container, ignoring aspect ratio. This may cause distortion.

  - `center`: The image will retain its original size and will be aligned at the center. It may overflow or be cropped.

  - `shrink`: The image will behave like `fill` or `center`, whichever results in a smaller image. It will only scale down if needed.

  Example: `#http://<DMA>/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=Generic%20Images&source=http://IpAddress/Folder/Picture.png&refresh=5000&fitMode=center`

> - `toolbar=false`/`showtoolbar=false` (All video types): By default the VLC toolbar is shown. To hide the toolbar, specify "toolbar=false" or "showtoolbar=false" in the URL.

Reviewer: I would remove "VLC" here. For type `VLC` it's indeed the VLC toolbar, but for type `HTML5` it is the HTML5 toolbar.

---
uid: Adding_parameters_to_the_video_URL
---

# Adding parameters to the video URL

The parameters you are allowed to pass inside the video URL depend on the type of the video server.

All supported video server types and their associated parameters are defined in the file `C:\Skyline DataMiner\videoservers.xml`.

Additional configuration is possible in the URL:

- `referer=` (Generic VLC): The VLC component of video thumbnails sends a referer HTTP header when requesting the source URL. The referer URL is by default the URL of the DMA, but you can change it by specifying the parameter "referer=" in the URL of the video thumbnail.

  Example: `#http://localhost/VideoThumbnails/video.htm?type=VLC&source=http%3A%2F%2Fclips.vorwaerts-gmbh.de%2Fbig_buck_bunny.mp4&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fsome%2Freferer%2F.`

> - `user=` and `password=` (All types): You can add a password and username in the URL for basic HTTP authentication. However, in that case we advise to always use HTTPS, as otherwise the username and password will not be encrypted.

Author: ```suggestion
- `user=` and `password=` (Images): You can add a password and username in the URL for basic HTTP authentication. However, in that case we advise to always use HTTPS, as otherwise the username and password will not be encrypted. Note that this parameter can only be used when the `proxy=` parameter is set to `true` (default).
```

  Example: `#https://dma/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=Generic%20Images&source=http%3A%2F%2F10.0.20.101%2Fimages%2Fthumbs%2F4.jpg&user=admin&password=test&refresh=1000`

> - `auth=` (All types): Specify an HTTP authorization header that will be added to the HTTP request when a thumbnail image is requested from the video server. This option is required when the video server expects an authentication token (for example *OAuth2*).

Author: ```suggestion
- `auth=` (Images): Specify an HTTP authorization header that will be added to the HTTP request when a thumbnail image is requested from the video server. This option is required when the video server expects an authentication token (for example *OAuth2*). Note that this parameter can only be used when the `proxy=` parameter is set to `true` (default).
```

  Example: `#https://dma/videothumbnails/video.htm?type=Generic%20Images&source=https%3A%2F%2F77.158.55.113%2Fvos-api%2Fmonitor%2Fv1%2Fservices%2F55002da8-37fd-43de-82a9-f6b75089d8c9%2Fthumbnail&auth=bearer%20580a4efa-0aab-4882-af91-7b0118c67f5d` |

- `volume=` (Generic VLC): Available from DataMiner 10.2.0 [CU1]/10.2.4 onwards. Specify the volume for the VLC player in the URL. The volume should be specified as a percentage, ranging from 0 (i.e. muted) to 100.

  Example: `#https://dma.local/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=VLC&source=https://videoserver/video.mp4&volume=50`

> - `loop=` (All types): Available from DataMiner 10.2.0 [CU1]/10.2.4 onwards. Specify that the video should play continuously in a loop. Set to `false` by default.

Author: ```suggestion
- `loop=` (All video types): Available from DataMiner 10.2.0 [CU1]/10.2.4 onwards. Specify that the video should play continuously in a loop. Set to `false` by default.
```

  `#https://dma.local/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=HTML5&source=https://videoserver/video.mp4&loop=true`

> - `fitMode=` (All types): Available from DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU18]/10.5.0 [CU6]/10.5.9 onwards<!--RN 43388-->. Specify how the image in a video thumbnail should be displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
- `fitMode=` (Images): Available from DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU18]/10.5.0 [CU6]/10.5.9 onwards<!--RN 43388-->. Specify how the image in a video thumbnail should be displayed.
```

  The possible values are:

  - `fill`: The image will completely cover the container. It may crop parts of the image, but it ensures that there is no empty space (*default*).

  - `fit`: The image will be fully visible inside the container while maintaining aspect ratio. There may be empty space if aspect ratios differ.

  - `stretch`: The image will stretch to exactly fill the container, ignoring aspect ratio. This may cause distortion.

  - `center`: The image will retain its original size and will be aligned at the center. It may overflow or be cropped.

  - `shrink`: The image will behave like `fill` or `center`, whichever results in a smaller image. It will only scale down if needed.

  Example: `#https://dma.local/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=HTML5&source=https://videoserver/video.mp4&loop=true&fitMode=center`

> - `toolbar=false`/`showtoolbar=false` (Generic VLC): By default the VLC toolbar is shown. To hide the toolbar, specify "toolbar=false" or "showtoolbar=false" in the URL.

Reviewer: not just Generic VLC, this is available for all video types, so also HTML5 and HTML5-HLS

>   Example: `#http://<DMAIP>/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=Generic VLC&source=http://<DMAIP>/myvideo.mpeg&showtoolbar=false`

Reviewer: There shouldn't be a space in the URL (replace space with %20)
And typically \<DMAIP\> won't be used in the source parameter

- `refresh=` (Generic Images): Specify how frequently you want the image to be refreshed (in milliseconds).

>   Example: `#http://<DMA IP>/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=Generic Images&source=http://IpAddress/Folder/Picture.png&refresh=5000`

Reviewer: \<DMAIP\> without space

- `proxy=` (Generic Images): By default, a thumbnail of type `Generic Images` always uses the DMA as a proxy. However, you can add an extra URL parameter, "proxy", to override this behavior.

>   Example: `http://<DMA IP>/VideoThumbnails/video.htm?type=Generic%20Images&source=<IMG URL>&proxy=false`

Reviewer: \<DMAIP\> without space

> [!NOTE]
>
> - Always make sure that the parameters of the URL are URL-encoded, as illustrated in the examples above.

> > - Use the *EscapeDataString* placeholder when you add parameters, properties or other DataMiner data sources in the URL (see [\[EscapeDataString:x\]](xref:Placeholders_for_variables_in_shape_data_values#escapedatastringx)). For example: `https://<DMAIP>/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=Generic%20VLC&source=[EscapeDataString:[param:*,10014]]`

Author: ```suggestion
> - In Visio, you can use the *EscapeDataString* placeholder when you add parameters, properties, or other DataMiner data sources in the URL (see [\[EscapeDataString:x\]](xref:Placeholders_for_variables_in_shape_data_values#escapedatastringx)). For example: `https://<DMA>/VideoThumbnails/Video.htm?type=Generic%20VLC&source=[EscapeDataString:[param:*,10014]]`
```
